If you want to build software
that is stable and as close to error-free as you can get it,
the compiler is your best friend,
because the compiler is a program that checks that you have followed
your own rules and the languages rule even one that's very tedious and difficult.
With a dynamically checked language,
you have to rely on having completely tested your program and that never happens.
So last bulk is an old joke.
I mean you never get it but if you have
a systematic set of rules which is what a language is,
then you're going to have a machine shake it for you.
It doesn't ball and it's much faster.
That comes together with the idea of the abstraction mechanisms in C++.
If everything you do is sort of hardware level, pointers, arrays,
built-in types like integers and floating point,
it limits what a compiler can do for you except for generating code.
If you abstract so that you have
hash tables and complex numbers in dimensional matrices or whatever,
graphical shapes with manipulation of the graphics and things like that,
then the compiler can start helping you to avoid stupid things.
In a runtime, check language at an empty check language.
You have an IO stream,
a stream that goes out and imagery and you try to
rotate it with an operation that is meant to rotate the shapes on your screen.
In a dynamically type language,
it will find the problem and gives you an error and since you are into the debug.
In a compiled language it will say this program will never run, you have an error.
This is important because a lot of the application I'm thinking a lot about
is going to run places where there won't be a programmer.
So sending something into an error,
hand low or debug it's not going to help at all.
There won't be a programmer in the house.
I mean if that camera decided that the program was wrong and it's done something bad,
the only thing you could do was to stop.
You don't want to telephone switch to stop just because there's not a programmer
in the house or the engine of your plane or something like that.
So the first reason the compiler is
your best friend is that it catches errors systematically and early.
This by the way means that you have to think a little bit harder when you write the code.
Because you really have to get it correct.
You can't just be sloppy and it works most of the time,
that's not what a compiled language does.
The second thing is it generates much better code.
So something like C++ it's not uncommon
to find it runs 10 or 50 times faster than alternatives.
To put the first level of defense in the compiler is simply to get the code correct.